# RegexMatchExtensions class

Extension methods for extracting values from regular expression matches.

```csharp
public static class RegexMatchExtensions
```

## Public Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| static [Get&lt;T&gt;](RegexMatchExtensions/Get.md)(…) | Returns a value of the specified type for the match. |
| static [TryGet&lt;T&gt;](RegexMatchExtensions/TryGet.md)(…) |  |

## Remarks

These methods convert successful matches into values of the specified type.

For simple types, the text of the first capturing group is converted to that type; if there are no capturing groups, the entire match is converted.

For tuple types, each capturing group is converted to an item in the requested tuple.

If a group is not successful, the `default` value is returned, which is `null` for nullable types, but zero for non-nullable numeric types.

If a group has multiple captures and the target type is an array, each capture is converted to an item in the returned array.

If the target type is `string`, the text of the group/capture is returned.

If the target type is `Group` or `Capture`, the corresponding object of that type for the group/capture is returned.

If the target type is `bool`, `true` is returned (unless the group was not successful, per above).

If the target type is a numeric type or `Guid`, the text of the group/capture is parsed into that type using the invariant culture and default settings, which allow leading and trailing whitespace. If the text is empty or only whitespace, the group is treated as having failed. If the text cannot be parsed into that type, the corresponding `FormatException` is thrown.

If the target type is an enumerated type, the text of the group/capture is parsed as that type, ignoring case.

## See Also

* namespace [RegexMatchValues](../RegexMatchValues.md)
* [RegexMatchExtensions.cs](https://github.com/ejball/RegexMatchValues/tree/master/src/RegexMatchValues/RegexMatchExtensions.cs)

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: generated by xmldocmd for RegexMatchValues.dll -->
